Okay, so we're at the CLI Blog,
our first app.
It's a blog with a twist.
It's a CLI Blog.
[LAUGH] So, it's your favorite,
it's a graph.
[LAUGH] So we have a,
these are what we're gonna do,
it's kinda like the map of interactions.
We have a starting point and
we're gonna see if we have any
authors we can go straight to menu.
If we don't have any authors, we go to
Create Author down at the bottom here.
And after we create the author,
we go back to menu.
From menu we can see all the posts,
go see the latest posts.
Go create more authors.
We can go Write, but
Write doesn't go back to menu.
Write goes up to the latest after
its done cuz you just wrote it,
you wanna see it here.
So this is kind of the map,
world map of what we're doing.
We'll see how far we get.
I really just care about working
on the architectural decisions and
making this app in a functional way.
More so than I do like completing all the
little nuts and bolts to make this work.
So let's see what we can
do in the time allotted.
Get back to our VS code.
We're gonna start with
this little setup here.
We have a question and answer interface.
And it works like so,
we can call getInput.
So, and then, I can map over that and
be like, whatever x x to UpperCase it's.
And so
we're just dealing inside a task now but
this is my answer to that question, right.
So, this will pose the question in the
console and then I'll get my answer back.
Let's just run that.
Just make sure it works
console.error console.log.
We run it.
Still try to get rid of those pop ups,
cannot do it.
Thanks VS code, all right.
It's probably my fault.
It's not their fault I'm sure.
So go to blog index and so
set like now, there you go.
Cool, there's the app.
We're done.
Feel that luck.
So this is neat.
This kinda just comes with the interface
realign we just grabbed it in the task.
So what I want to start by
doing is looking back at that
kinda world map we have, I'd like to just
sketch out some of these functions and
kinda see what the type
of these functions are.
And to do so, I just have to write
some rough like wishful thinking code.
So I'm not gonna go implement everything.
I'm just gonna kinda
loosely write stuff and
then see what we might
need as a function model.
So start with Start.
It's a good place to start
[LAUGH] to function.
I guess we'll, first, we're gonna check
to see if there's any authors, right?
So what we can do is, I believe
we're gonna bring in a little array
based database that I think
I've previously prepared.
See if this is here, it's in lib, okay.
So we have this little database.
Actually, let me go take
a look at Dbx it exports,
save find all and the store.
Okay, cool and this just we're
working with arrays wrapped in a task.
I was, if we had time I would have
gone into the strategy pattern or
something in here but we are,
it's really neither here nor there.
So we have save all and
that's all we really need.
We could use find maybe,
but focus on that.
So the way this works is I guess we'll
say all we have to give it a table name.
So let's give it like author table,
just authors.
So give it the table name.
And then that will,
I can change over that and
get, so this is a task.
Actually just map over it right now and
get the authors.
And we'll say if we have authors,
we're gonna
go into the menu otherwise,
we're gonna go to Create Author.
All right now, again,
none of this is implemented.
It looks like this is another function,
some mapping over this function and
returning another function,
that's a little weird.
We'll have to just keep an eye on that.
So what does CreateAuthor look like?
And let's just get through
these maybe three functions and
then we'll kinda see
what we're dealing with.
And as we make more functions,
we might have to come back and refactor,
see what happens.
But CreateAuthor, sketch that out.
All right, what would that look like?
Well, we'll ask, we'll get the input On,
let's say, name.
And then when we get the input back,
we get,
I keep going straight to chain, but I'm
not really sure if I need the chain yet.
So we get back the author name.
Let's go ahead and make a little
author type that takes a name.
And the interesting thing about
that is it's really nothing.
It's just going to pick a name,
slap it in a type.
And the reason I like to do this,
in a more typed
formal language ,or if we had a class or
whatever else we would,
it keeps your data types defined so that
you're not just willy nilly creating data
types all throughout your app as you go.
And so like this passenger constructor,
even though it's not really doing
anything besides putting in an object.
Then we'll go ahead and map over that.
So we have an author and
what do we do with that?
I guess now that we've created an author,
we probably have to save it in the DB.
Okay, so that'll be a chain.
Or no, let's just, that's a map there.
And this is chain, yeah.
So save this in the DB,
again in the author table.
So save here, we're gonna save the author
and then finally we have to map that into,
we don't really care that we
saved the author as long as it,
I imagine this will reject
the task if it doesn't save.
We could remodel the database in a number
of ways, we could have a task either right
where the DB connection might be why
the task fails, and then it still has
a successful task with an error inside
it if it didn't save the author.
Do some validations,
perhaps we will use our validation
library to work with the author.
But right now I'm just
going to say whatever.
Let's just sketch these out.
I'm gonna say menu is where
we'll go from there, right.
We have an author and
now we're going to menu.
And if we look back at our little map,
every time we create an author,
I go back to menu.
There's nowhere else to go, so
I'm just going to go right there.
Last one, let's go ahead and
write menu, it's a fun one.
Menu, Let's see,
where do you want to go today?
MSN?
1991?
And we'll, maybe private provide a hint,
do we want to do like create author,
write, all her latest.
All right, cool, because there's some
some hints at what we can actually do and
once we get that input,
we get the route, I suppose.
We'll need a little router, so we'll
do a router, we'll pass in the route.
And that will be, look at this, we're
just passing these continuations along,
now that I see it, right?
So, once I'm passing the router out,
let's go ahead and write a little router,
and then we'll finish our little sketch,
let's put this down here.
And one of the things about this is
we're defining these functions and
JavaScript will not like it if I mention
this functions before they're defined.
But since they're inside functions here,
they don't care of that.
I can call router within there but
I have to write the router down here,
Start, Menu.
Well, we don't want to let
people go back to the start, so
that's not even a possibility.
In Menu, createAuthor and we can add more.
All right, good times.